SubcloneSeeker
==============

Computational Framework to reconstructing tumor clone structures

Introduction
============

Clonal heterogeneity is a defining feature of many tumor types, and the
elucidation of the subclones that exist within the tumor sample, together with
the corresponding cellular fractions, is essential to understand tumorigenesis,
relapse, and metastasis. We developed a software framework, SubcloneSeeker,
that examines somatic variation events (such as copy number changes, loss of
heterozygosity, or point mutations) in order to identify the underlying
subclone structure, i.e. the subclones including the normal (non-cancerous)
cells and their cellular frequencies within the tumor tissue. 

Directory Structure
------------------- 

'src' directory contains all the classes that consists of the SubcloneSeeker
core library, in which the basic data types and logics for representing somatic
mutations, mutation clusters and subclones are defined.

'utils' directory contains the source code for many command-line utilities that
utilizing the SubcloneSeeker core library.

'test' directory contains the test cases for the core library. 

'doc' directory contains the project's documentation, generated by Doxygen

'contrib' directory contains third part libraries that the project uses.

License
-------

SubcloneSeeker is distributed under MIT license.

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Yi Qiao

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
