SubcloneSeeker Documentation {#mainpage}
============================

SubcloneSeeker
==============

Computational Framework to reconstructing tumor clone structures

Introduction
============

Clonal heterogeneity is a defining feature of many tumor types, and the
elucidation of the subclones that exist within the tumor sample, together with
the corresponding cellular fractions, is essential to understand tumorigenesis,
relapse, and metastasis. We developed a software framework, SubcloneSeeker,
that examines somatic variation events (such as copy number changes, loss of
heterozygosity, or point mutations) in order to identify the underlying
subclone structure, i.e. the subclones including the normal (non-cancerous)
cells and their cellular frequencies within the tumor tissue. 

Getting Started
---------------

Please refer to the documentation for how to get started, or run examples.

http://yiq.github.io/SubcloneSeekerDoc/

Directory Structure
------------------- 

'src' directory contains all the classes that consists of the SubcloneSeeker
core library, in which the basic data types and logics for representing somatic
mutations, mutation clusters and subclones are defined.

'utils' directory contains the source code for many command-line utilities that
utilizing the SubcloneSeeker core library.

'test' directory contains the test cases for the core library. 

'doc' directory contains the project's documentation, generated by Doxygen. A
pre-built version can be read at http://yiq.github.io/SubcloneSeekerDoc/

'contrib' directory contains third part libraries that the project uses.

License
-------

SubcloneSeeker is distributed under MIT license.

The MIT License (MIT)

Copyright (c) 2013 Yi Qiao

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
Command line utilities
======================

Descriptions and usage about the included command line utilities can be found at the [Command line utilities](utils.html) page

Running the examples
====================

There are four examples prepared for you in a easy-to-run fashion. Each of the
example represents a figure in the article. In order reproduce the figures,
make sure you have R installed, and the binary can be found through PATH
lookup. If you run the following command

	which R

And see an absolute path, such as '/usr/bin/R', then the requirement is
satisfied

Getting the example tarball
---------------------------

The example tarball consists of four results presented in the paper. The
tarball is at the root directory of the source tree.

https://github.com/yiq/SubcloneSeeker/blob/master/examples.tar.gz



Setup the variables
-------------------

Navigate to the example directory on a commandline. Edit the file 'setup.sh' so
that it reflects how you organized the project files. Make sure that you have
compiled the binaries in the SubcloneSeeker project. If you haven't done so,
please refer to the 'INSTALLATION' section in this document.

###Example-1: Simulation

__Directory: 01-simulation__

The first example simulates 1000 tumors, each with 3, 4, ..., 8 subclones.
Subclone Deconvolution is then performed on all the samples, and statistics
will be collected as in how many possible solutions for each tumor. You can
initiate the simulation by running the 'sim.sh' script

	./sim.sh

Note that this will take some time to finish, especially in the case 7 or 8
subclones per tumor. Results will be stored in 'result' directory. To plot the
results, launch R in the example directory and run the 'plot.r' scriot

	R
	source('plot.r');

A result set from a run executed on my computer is also provided, if you just
want to plot the results. In that case, please use the 'plot\_prerun.r' script

###Example-2: Purity estimation with the snuc cancer cell-line dataset

__Directory: 02-snuc__

In this example, a snuc cancer cell line (thus very high purity) was
sequenced, and its sequencing reads were combined with those reads from
sequencing the paired-normal sample at various ratios. Subclone deconvolution
is performed on each of the digitally created samples, and purity estimation is
reported. In order to run the example, simple type

	make

in the example directory, as it will take care of removing old results (if you
run it before), creating required directories, running the deconvolution and
plotting the result. After the execution, a file 'SamplePurity.pdf' should be
created in the same directory, which contains the plotted result. 

###Example-3: Re-analysis of the dataset presented in Ding et, al. 2012

execute

	make

(More content to be written......)

###Example-4: Analysis of two OvCa cancer sample Single Nucleotide Polymorphism dataset

execute

	make

(More content to be written......)
